---
layout: default
title: Design
parent: Neutron
---

## Design of Neutron Kernel

The philosophy is minimalism and inertia. There should be minimal obstacles preventing the flow of data in the entire system. The kernel helps to faciliate the flow of information in a safe and fast manner.

Neutron is best described as a minimalist hybrid kernel, kind of like XNU or NT. Except it tries to be more generic, wrapping around major hardware interfaces and software interfaces.

### Inertia

A mass moving continues to move in its direction unless acted upon by a force in a different direction. In neutron, we want data to move as continuously and unobstructed as possible, doing minor checks and processing along the way like an assembly line.

If a part of the line breaks, the entire thing could come to a halt. So Neutron employs a strict routing and recovery strategy. Packets may be lost or queued in an auxiliary storage area to allow the other parts to flow along. A broken part of the line may be replaced with a temporary part or just skipped if possible.

## Arc Process Permissions

Arc permissions are a privileged concept managed by the userspace shell. These permissions are divided into 10 categories:

- File reads
- Modify files, change their location, delete them
- Access location info
- Access camera
- Access microphone
- Monitor input through /dev (basically read())
- Bluetooth
- Accessibility features

If done properly, users should be downloading verified apps. Which run in `High` mode. These apps should not do anything funny to the PC. And malicious sites should not be visited at all and all site browses should always be HTTPS enabled. Also other things like SAFE mode that prevents any popups and redirections at all. So that websites cant do stupid things.

Verified apps need to have a certificate and hash which can be checked. The hash is generated by the dev's 256-bit priv key with their software so it is practically infeasible to be an imposter.
